>> Erik: So, let's overview
the methods of how we can do
changes when we resize things.
So, for instance, if we resize the window,
then we have two main methods,
how can we do the changes on the web page.
First is CSS media queries, it's used when
we built adaptive design or
it's the resize event.
When we track the element size,
then there are two other options,
that is a re-size observer that
allows us to fire the callback, and
there is a CSS container query
that allows us to change the UI.
So let's compare all of these
methods from the performance-wise.
So the CSS media query is,
performance-wise is the best way to do
the adaptive layout cases when you don't
need to actually execute any JS callback.
But it has some limitation,
we can't fire any callback, and
we also can track specific element.
So, for this specific reason,
the CSS container queries implemented,
so we can set up the container that
we're and based on this container size,
we can change the children,
Lisa has styles.
So it's also pretty super fast, and
it allows us to track the elements.
But the problem is that we still
can't fire any JS callbacks on that.
Then we have the resize event, so
the resize event is super slow.
This, may be one of common reason why
your application is potentially slow.
The reason why the resize event is slow,
is it relies on standard DOM events,
and as you know,
when we fire any event in the DOM.
So first, the event goes from top to
the target element, and then event
goes from bottom to the top again, so
this is called bubbling mechanism.
And every time resize event is fired,
we actually need to traverse
the whole DOM tree internally to provide
the target element with an event.
So, this is one reason why it's slow.
The second one is it's fired too often.
So if you try to set up a resize event for
the window object,
it can be fired like 5,000
times in just a small resize.
So, you usually debounce that, but
it allows us to track the window size and
fire the callback.
But the issue is, we still cannot
track the specific element size.
So, my recommendation would be to
not to use resize event unless you
really need this or
you're supporting some legacy clients.
So, it's always better to rely on
ResizeObserver instead because
the ResizeObserver was designed
specifically for this case where you
need to track resize of the different
elements in a very fast way.
So, the ResizeObserver on average round
10 times faster than the resize event.
It also supports the callback, so
we can fire the GIS callback on
certain element resize and
we can track multiple elements with that.
So, we can combine the CSS media queries
with a ResizeObserver to build our complex
adaptive view layout cases.
And before we jump to
overview of ResizeObserver.
So, the ResizeObserver has
the most simple API actually.
So, ResizeObserver constructor
doesn't take any more arguments
except the callback.
And the callback has just, and
the callback itself has
the observer resize entries, but
let's first understand what are the
properties that observe method takes.
So, it just one property,
which is the box, and
you can stop the box as a content box or
the border box.
So in case of the content box, we'll just
track the size of this blue rectangle.
So if you change the padding or
the border,
the observer will not be triggered.
And if we use the border box,
then we utilize both the border and
the padding in the resize
event calculations.
And the ResizeObserver entry has
a slightly weird property set.
So it has the border box size,
content box size,
and as you can see,
it's an array of boxes.
Why it's an array of boxes?
Why it's just not a single box?
Apparently, so,
the spec developers, so right now,
you will always have a single
element in this array.
But the spec developers,
they think that in the future we will have
HTML elements that may be
not just a single box, but
may contain multi-column
layout in one single element.
That's why we need to track multiple
columns within single element.
And in the future,
we're gonna use this array of boxes.
So, they, but right now,
you will always have just a single
element because no there are no such
multicolumn elements at the current spec.
So, also, there is a target
element that we are going to use,
which gives us the element that
trigger three sides observer.
The callback is implemented similar way.
It takes the entries and
we need to look for the entries and
to access the width or
the high properties.
So we use the first element
of the water box size.
So as you can see, so because we always
know that it's just a single element,
then we use the zero index here.
And here we have the inline size and
the block size.
So, inline size corresponds to the width,
the block size corresponds to the height.
And then we can set up
the ResizeObserver for
multiple boxes and trigger the callback